README.md, before:

# contactMgmtPy
Manage your professional network efficiently in one place. \
You can view, create, update, and delete your contacts. \
With our login feature, your contact list is kept private.

## Login options
User can choose one of the following login options [0-5]: \
[0] exit the program \
[1] login with username and password (account needed)\
[2] create login profile \
[3] change username and password (login required)\
[4] delete login profile (login required)\
[5] contact developer for any questions or feedback


### [0] exit the program
Program terminates.

### [1] login with username and password (account needed)
User must have an account before logging in. \
If user doesn't have an account, user can create one through `login option [2]`. \
User have five attempts to successfully login. \

After the fifth failed attempt, user is redirected to the `login options`. \
After a successful login, user is redirected to the `contacts list`.

### [2] create login profile
User can create an account with 'valid' username and password.
- 'valid' means that both username and password meet all the validation criteria:
  - username must be unique and less than 24 characters.
  - password must be between 8-12 characters.
  - password must have at least one special character: !@#$%^&*()-_+=
  - password must have at least one number.
  - password must have at least one uppercase.

### [3] change username and password (login required)
User can change username and password. \
User must first verify the correct username and password before the change. \
User must follow the same validation criteria listed in `login option [2]`.

### [4] delete login profile (login required)
User can delete their login profile. \
User must first verify the correct username and password before the deletion. \
**Once user deletes, all associated contacts will be erased permanently.**

### [5] contact developer for any questions or feedback
User can reach out to the developer via email for any questions or feedback. 

## Contacts actions
**Pre-requisite**: user logged in through `login option [1]`. \
User can choose one of the following actions to manage their contacts [0-4]: \
[0] log out \
[1] create a contact \
[2] view a contact detail \
[3] update a contact \
[4] delete a contact

### [0] log out
log out of the user account and get redirected to the login options page.

### [1] create a contact
Pre-requisite: user must have populated a self-contact profile to create other contacts.

The following attributes can be filled in to create a contact:
- `f_name`: first name (required)
- `l_name`: last name (required)
- `m_name`: middle name
- `phone`: personal phone number, mobile or home (e.g., (123)-456-7890)
- `email`: personal email address (e.g., email_id@gmail.com)
- `address`: home address
- `homepage`: URL link (e.g., homepage_url@abcd.com)
- `company`: current workplace (e.g., Google)
- `department`: current team (e.g., sales)
- `title`: current title (e.g., senior director)
- `work phone`: work phone number (e.g., (123)-456-7890
- `work address`: work address
- `memo`: additional details to remember

### [2] view a contact detail
User can select a contact to read the details by providing a valid `contact_id` from the contacts list.

### [3] update a contact
User can select a contact to update one or more of its attributes by providing a valid `contact_id` from the contacts list.

### [4] delete a contact
User can select a contact to delete it from the contacts list by providing a valid `contact_id`.

## Communication Contract for two microservices
### 1. handshake microservice
- **feature**: sync login features between Contacts App and Reminders App. 
- **how to REQUEST data**: 
    1. import handshake microservice module \
    (e.g., `import handshake_client_zmq`)
    2. prepare three parameters - user id for Reminders App and login username and password for Contacts App \
    (e.g., `r_user_id: int`, `c_username: str`, `c_password: str`)
    3. call handshake microservice method with the three parameters \
    (e.g., `handshake_client_zmq.handshake_client(r_user_id, c_username, c_password)`)
- **how to RECEIVE data**: 
    1. result will be returned to the handshake microservice method as a boolean data type \
    (e.g., `True`: when successful, `False`: when failed)

### 2. contacts microservice
- *pre-requisite*: user of Reminders App already synced their account with a Contacts App account through the handshake microservice.
- **feature**: import contacts list from Contacts App.
- **how to REQUEST data**:
    1. import contacts microservice module \
    (e.g., `import contacts_client_zmq`)
    2. prepare a parameter - user id for Reminders App \
    (e.g., `r_user_id: int`)
    3. call contacts microservice method with the parameter \
    (e.g., `contacts_client_zmq.contacts_client(r_user_id)`)
- **how to RECEIVE data**:
    1. result will be returned to the contacts microservice method either as a dictionary or boolean data type \
    (e.g., `False`: when failed, `{'contacts': [{'contact_id': 0, 'f_name': 'James', 'l_name': Toby}...]}`)

### Sequence diagram for two microservices
![Sequence Diagrams](sequence_diagram.png)

Commit message:

added contacts option [5]: 'sync account with Reminders App'

README.md, after:

# contactMgmtPy
Manage your professional network efficiently in one place. \
You can view, create, update, and delete your contacts. \
With our login feature, your contact list is kept private.

## Login options
User can choose one of the following login options [0-5]: \
[0] exit the program \
[1] login with username and password (account needed)\
[2] create login profile \
[3] change username and password (login required)\
[4] delete login profile (login required)\
[5] contact developer for any questions or feedback


### [0] exit the program
Program terminates.

### [1] login with username and password (account needed)
User must have an account before logging in. \
If user doesn't have an account, user can create one through `login option [2]`. \
User have five attempts to successfully login. \

After the fifth failed attempt, user is redirected to the `login options`. \
After a successful login, user is redirected to the `contacts list`.

### [2] create login profile
User can create an account with 'valid' username and password.
- 'valid' means that both username and password meet all the validation criteria:
  - username must be unique and less than 24 characters.
  - password must be between 8-12 characters.
  - password must have at least one special character: !@#$%^&*()-_+=
  - password must have at least one number.
  - password must have at least one uppercase.

### [3] change username and password (login required)
User can change username and password. \
User must first verify the correct username and password before the change. \
User must follow the same validation criteria listed in `login option [2]`.

### [4] delete login profile (login required)
User can delete their login profile. \
User must first verify the correct username and password before the deletion. \
**Once user deletes, all associated contacts will be erased permanently.**

### [5] contact developer for any questions or feedback
User can reach out to the developer via email for any questions or feedback. 

## Contacts actions
**Pre-requisite**: user logged in through `login option [1]`. \
User can choose one of the following actions to manage their contacts [0-4]: \
[0] log out \
[1] create a contact \
[2] view a contact detail \
[3] update a contact \
[4] delete a contact \
[5] sync account with Reminders App \

### [0] log out
log out of the user account and get redirected to the login options page.

### [1] create a contact
Pre-requisite: user must have populated a self-contact profile to create other contacts.

The following attributes can be filled in to create a contact:
- `f_name`: first name (required)
- `l_name`: last name (required)
- `m_name`: middle name
- `phone`: personal phone number, mobile or home (e.g., (123)-456-7890)
- `email`: personal email address (e.g., email_id@gmail.com)
- `address`: home address
- `homepage`: URL link (e.g., homepage_url@abcd.com)
- `company`: current workplace (e.g., Google)
- `department`: current team (e.g., sales)
- `title`: current title (e.g., senior director)
- `work phone`: work phone number (e.g., (123)-456-7890
- `work address`: work address
- `memo`: additional details to remember

### [2] view a contact detail
User can select a contact to read the details by providing a valid `contact_id` from the contacts list.

If accounts synchroized between Contacts App and Remidners App (via `contacts option [5]`), \
additional attributes, `Reminders_[#]` will be displayed as attribute(s) if a selected contact has reminder task(s) stored in Reminders App.

### [3] update a contact
User can select a contact to update one or more of its attributes by providing a valid `contact_id` from the contacts list.

### [4] delete a contact
User can select a contact to delete it from the contacts list by providing a valid `contact_id`.

### [5] sync account with Reminders App
User can sync reminders from Reminders App to display individual reminder tasks in a contact detail through `contacts option [2]`. \
User only needs to sync **once**.

## Communication Contract for two microservices
### 1. handshake microservice
- **feature**: sync login features between Contacts App and Reminders App. 
- **how to REQUEST data**: 
    1. import handshake microservice module \
    (e.g., `import handshake_client_zmq`)
    2. prepare three parameters - user id for Reminders App and login username and password for Contacts App \
    (e.g., `r_user_id: int`, `c_username: str`, `c_password: str`)
    3. call handshake microservice method with the three parameters \
    (e.g., `handshake_client_zmq.handshake_client(r_user_id, c_username, c_password)`)
- **how to RECEIVE data**: 
    1. result will be returned to the handshake microservice method as a boolean data type \
    (e.g., `True`: when successful, `False`: when failed)

### 2. contacts microservice
- *pre-requisite*: user of Reminders App already synced their account with a Contacts App account through the handshake microservice.
- **feature**: import contacts list from Contacts App.
- **how to REQUEST data**:
    1. import contacts microservice module \
    (e.g., `import contacts_client_zmq`)
    2. prepare a parameter - user id for Reminders App \
    (e.g., `r_user_id: int`)
    3. call contacts microservice method with the parameter \
    (e.g., `contacts_client_zmq.contacts_client(r_user_id)`)
- **how to RECEIVE data**:
    1. result will be returned to the contacts microservice method either as a dictionary or boolean data type \
    (e.g., `False`: when failed, `{'contacts': [{'contact_id': 0, 'f_name': 'James', 'l_name': Toby}...]}`)

### Sequence diagram for two microservices
![Sequence Diagrams](sequence_diagram.png)
